---
date: 2022-10-02T16:30
tags:
  - programmation
  - clean-code
---

# Uncle Bob: Clean Code, lesson 5

## Reference

-[Reference]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sn0aFEMVTpA&list=PLmmYSbUCWJ4x1GO839azG_BBw8rkh-zOj&index=6 )

## 1 Diffraction: Why do incandescent lights glow?


## 2 Architecture Introduction / I've built lots of apps / "I want to be a programmer" anecdote.


## 3 The Architecture rules are independent of every other variable.


## 4 Working vs. Right.


## 5 What is Design in Architecture?

> All of us are architects

## 6 What is the goal of Software Architecture?

> As effort increases, the quality of the design decreases

- Minimize human effort to built and maintain the system

## 7 Case study of bad Architecture.


## 8 Executive View / What went wrong / Secret to going fast.


## 9 Messes aren't faster even in the short term.


## 10 Solution of the Executive's Dilema / Two Values of Sofware.

- value of what it does
- value of how it is built

## 11 Behavior  / Are we going to see self driving cars?


## 12 Scope vs. Shape / Stakeholders want changes.

> Keep the puzzle simple 

> We have to communicate the importance of the second value

## 13 Urgency and Importance / Eisenhower Matrix.


## 14 Fight for the Architecture.


## 15 A Rails App / The web is a delivery Mechanism.


## 16 Architecture Floor Plans / A Use Case Driven Approach.


## 17 Interactors / Entities / Interfaces Objects.


## 18 Request Model.


## 19 What about MCV? / Design Patterns / How MCV goes wrong as a web Architecture.


## 20 Model View Presenter / Dependency Rule.


## 21 What about the Database? / The Database is a detail / ORM


## 22 Fitnesse: a wiki page porject development.


## 23 A good Architecture allows major decisions to be defered!  / About IntelliJ and Visual 
